
h1. vaadin-modules-dm-sample

h2. Intro 

p. This project is based on the article of "Creating a Modular Vaadin Application with OSGi":https://vaadin.com/wiki/-/wiki/Main/Creating%20a%20Modular%20Vaadin%20Application%20with%20OSGi from Petter Holmström. But its OSGi target is *Spring DM* .

p. Pre-requisites:

* Java 6+
* Maven 2/3
* Virgo 3.0.1+

p. The code has been tested against Virgo 3.0.1.RELEASE through Spring STS + Virgo Tools.

h2. How to run

p. First, you need to build the project. It's a maven project: you just have to run @mvn clean install@ under @vaadin-modules-dm-sample@ project.

p. You then need to deploy the bundles in a Virgo instance: 

* deploy the Vaadin bundle (the one used in the pom.xml) in a Virgo repository. You can create your own one. Let's assume VIRGO_HOME is the home of Virgo.

bq. 
cd $VIRGO_HOME/repository
mkdir vaadin
cp $HOME/vaadin-6.7.1.jar $VIRGO_HOME/repository/vaadin

* update the Virgo configuration to take into account the new repository. Edit the file @$VIRGO_HOME/config/org.eclipse.virgo.repository.properties@ with the following modifications:

bq. 
vaadin.type=watched
vaadin.watchDirectory=repository/vaadin
chain=ext,usr,vaadin

* deploy the vaadin-modules-xxx bundles into Virgo. You can either do it via Eclipse Virgo Tools or manually by copying the bundles under $VIRGO_HOME/pickup. Ensures that you deploy the @vaadin-modules-dm-app@ at the end.

* open a browser with the url "localhost:8080/vaadin-modules-dm":localhost:8080/vaadin-modules-dm


h2. Few notes

p. The design of the sample is a little bit different from the one described in the article. Indeed, the @Module@ implementations do not have a reference of the @ModuleService@ but the @ModuleService@ detects the arrival and the departure of @Module@ services (thanks to the *WhiteBoard pattern* ). This decouples the @Module@ from the @ModuleService@. Furthermore, the solution of the article lets assume that only one @ModuleService@ can be deployed in the OSGi runtime to be sure all the @Module@ register in the same @ModuleService@. This is not safe since several @ModuleService@ could be deployed in the OSGi runtime. That's why this sample prefers the WhiteBoard pattern approach.
 


